Update index and predefined judges pages (#20368)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/docs/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/index.mdx

## How judges work

A judge receives a [Trace](/genai/concepts/trace) from `evaluate()`. It then does the following:

1. Parses the `trace` to extract specific fields and data that are used to assess quality
2. Runs the judge to perform the quality assessment based on the extracted fields and data
3. Returns the quality assessment as [Feedback](/genai/assessments/feedback) to attach to the `trace`

## LLMs as judges

LLM judges use Large Language Models for quality assessment.

Think of a judge as an AI assistant specialized in quality assessment. It can evaluate your app's inputs, outputs, and even explore the entire execution trace to make assessments based on criteria you define. For example, when checking correctness, exact string matching would fail to recognize that `give me healthy food options` and `food to keep me fit` are semantically the same answer, but an LLM judge can understand they're both correct.

:::note

Judges use LLMs for evaluation. Use them directly with `mlflow.genai.evaluate()` or wrap them in [custom scorers](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/custom) for advanced scoring logic.

:::

### Built-in LLM judges

> MLflow provides research-validated judges for common use cases, including judges for RAG applications, tool calling, and multi-turn conversations.

Author: Done

import { Bot, Target, Scale } from "lucide-react";
import WorkflowSteps from '@site/src/components/WorkflowSteps';

# LLM Judges and Scorers

> Judges, also sometimes called scorers in the API, are a key component of the MLflow GenAI evaluation framework. They provide a unified interface to define evaluation criteria for your models, agents, and applications. Like their name suggests, judges judge how well your application did based on the evaluation criteria. This could be a pass/fail, true/false, numerical value, or a categorical value.

Reviewer: Perhaps we could add a note here like "Note: We'll refer to LLM judges and code-based scorers separately, but in the API, both LLM judges and code-based scorers are classified as types of scorers, such as in the functions `list_scorers` and `get_scorer`"

Then we can remove that phrase "Judges, also sometimes called scorers in the API, "

| [Custom judges](#)                                                                    | Full                   | Create fully customized LLM judges with detailed evaluation criteria and feedback optimization. Capable of returning numerical scores, categories, or boolean values. |
| [Code-based scorers](#)                                                               | Full                   | Programmatic and deterministic scorers that evaluate things like exact matching, format validation, and performance metrics.                                          |

## How judges work

A judge receives a [Trace](/genai/concepts/trace) from `evaluate()`. It then does the following:

1. Parses the `trace` to extract specific fields and data that are used to assess quality
2. Runs the judge to perform the quality assessment based on the extracted fields and data
3. Returns the quality assessment as [Feedback](/genai/assessments/feedback) to attach to the `trace`

## LLMs as judges

> LLM judges are a type of MLflow `Scorer` that uses Large Language Models for quality assessment.

Author: I'll take out the "are a type of MLflow `Scorer"

> LLM judges are a type of MLflow `Scorer` that uses Large Language Models for quality assessment.

Author: done

> Think of a judge as an AI assistant specialized in quality assessment. It can evaluate your app's inputs, outputs, and even explore the entire execution trace to make assessments based on criteria you define. For example, a judge can understand that `give me healthy food options` and `food to keep me fit` are similar queries.

Author: Changed to "For example, when checking correctness, exact string matching would fail to recognize that `give me healthy food options` and `food to keep me fit` are semantically the same answer, but an LLM judge can understand they're both correct."

:::note

Judges are a type of scorer that use LLMs for evaluation. Use them directly with `mlflow.genai.evaluate()` or wrap them in [custom scorers](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/custom) for advanced scoring logic.

:::

### Built-in LLM judges

MLflow provides research-validated judges for common use cases, including judges for RAG applications, tool calling, and multi-turn conversations.

See the [complete list of built-in judges](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/llm-judge/predefined/#available-judges) for details on each judge and their usage.

### Custom LLM judges

In addition to the built-in judges, MLflow makes it easy to create your own judges with custom prompts and instructions.

Use custom LLM judges when you need to define specialized evaluation tasks, need more control over grades (not just pass/fail), or need to validate that your agent made appropriate decisions and performed operations correctly for your specific use case.

See [Custom judges](#).

> Once you've created custom judges, you can further improve their accuracy by [aligning them with human feedback](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/llm-judge/alignment).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [Custom judges](#). Once you've created custom judges, you can further improve their accuracy by [aligning them with human feedback](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/llm-judge/alignment).
```

Author: Will add "You can further improve the judges' accuracy by [aligning them with human feedback](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/llm-judge/alignment)." in the Built-in LLM judges part

Author: Added

&emsp;→ Use [Agent-as-a-Judge Judges](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/llm-judge/agentic-overview).

> _I want to write my own code for evaluating my application. Other scorers don't fit my advanced needs._

&emsp;→ Use [Code-based Scorers](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/custom) to implement your own evaluation logic with Python.

If you are still not sure about which scorer to use, you can ask to the Ask AI widget in the right below.

## Code-based scorers

Custom code-based scorers offer the ultimate flexibility to define precisely how your GenAI application's quality is measured. You can define evaluation metrics tailored to your specific business use case, whether based on simple heuristics, advanced logic, or programmatic evaluations.

Use custom scorers for the following scenarios:

1. Defining a custom heuristic or code-based evaluation metric.
2. Customizing how the data from your app's trace is mapped to built-in LLM judges.
3. Using your own LLM for evaluation.
4. Any other use cases where you need more flexibility and control than provided by custom LLM judges.

See [Create custom code-based scorers](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/custom).

## How to Write a Good Judge?

> The general metrics such as 'Hallucination' or 'Toxicity' rarely work in practice. Successful practitioners analyze real data to uncover domain-specific failure modes and then define custom evaluation criteria from the ground up. Here is the general workflow of how to define a good scorer and iterate on it with MLflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In practice, out-of-the-box judges such as 'Groundedness' or 'Safety' struggle to understand your domain-specific data and criteria. Successful practitioners analyze real data to uncover domain-specific failure modes and then define custom evaluation criteria from the ground up. Here is the general workflow of how to define a good judge and iterate on it with MLflow.
```
